Tutorial for matches (#539)
usnistgov/metaschema: website/content/tutorials/4-constraints-matches/_index.md

    </model>
  </define-assembly>
</METASCHEMA>
```

## Type subsets with matches constraints

After previous success with complex constraints, our stakeholders want to propose a more ambitious change to the consortium. The stakeholders want flexible metadata for computer document instances, but also want precise validation for certain consortium or vendor-specific-metadata on a case-by-case basis. They approach us with a specific example. Prior to the use of our modeling tools, the stakeholders used a document management system with a flexible key-value metadata structure. Different records had additional fields, but despite that every record always had the two fields below.

| Key             | Value Description | Valid Value | Invalid Value |
|-----------------|-------------------|---------------------|-----------------------|
|  release-status | A description of the current release status for this model of computer: "unknown", "not-applicable", "in-development", "public", "obsolete" | `public` | `READY` |
|  release-date   | A date with year month day and timezone for when the last release status information was updated | `2024-01-01-04:00` |  `January 1` |

> The stakeholders want to know if we can enhance our models can define and enforce these requirements for specifically these key-value pairs, but flexibly permit others? Fortunately for us, we know we can achieve this `matches` constraints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our stakeholders want to know if we can enhance our models to define and enforce these requirements for specific key-value pairs, but flexibly permit others? Fortunately for us, we know we can achieve this `matches` constraints.
```

Author: Edited in https://github.com/usnistgov/metaschema/pull/539/commits/d86f1787554fa86006d42eaf1630d0b0e7ce49b0.
